# Bike-sales
This project, I used Google Sheets to analyze customers profile for a bike retail store and determin which factors influenced bike purchase.

FINDINGS:

1) Of all the recorded customers, 48.1% purchased a bike, whereas 51.9% didn't purchase a bike.
2) Of all the recorded customers, 53.8% were married, while 46.2% were single. Among married customers, 23% of them purchased a bike, while 30.7% of them didn't purchase a bike. Among single customers, 25% of them  purchased a bike, while 21.20% of them didn't purchase a bike.
3) Of all the recorded customers, 51.1% were men, while 48.9% were women. Among women,  23.90% of them purchased a bike, while 25% of them didn't purchase a bike. Among men, 24.20% of them purchased a bike, while 26% of them didn't purchase a bike. When influenced by marital status, 24.35% of married women didn't purchase a bike, while 20.07% of them purchased a bike. On the other hand, 21.71% of married men didn't purchase a bike, while 22.86% of them purchased a bike. 28.35% of single peple purchased a bike, while 25.76% of them didn't purchase a bike. 25.76% of single men purchased a bike, while 20.13% of them didn't purchase a bike.
4) When looking at customers income, the most common salaries in the dataset were $40.000 (15.40%) and $60.000 (16.50%) When looking at purchase decision, customers earning $40.000 were more likely to purchase a bike ( 9% bought a bike, while 6.40% didn't buy a bike). Among the customers earning $60.000, 8.10% purchased a bike, while 8.40% didn't purchase a bike, so almost no difference was observed.  Almost no difference was observed among customers earning from $110.000.
5) Of all the recorded customers, 28.10% of them had no children, 20.90% had 2 children, 16.90% had 1 child, 13.40% had 3 children, 12.60% had 4 children, and had 8.10% had 5 children. Purchae decision didn't seem to be influenced by the number of children per customer although it seems that, from 3 children onwards, purchase percent starts to decrease.
6) Of the registered customers, 30.60% of them held a Bachelor's Degree, 26.50% of them held a Partial College education, 17.90% had a High School education, 17.40% held a Graduate Degree, while 7.60% had a Partial High School education. Of the customers who held a Bachelor's Degree, 16.90% purchased a bike, while 13.70% didn't purchase a bike. While among customers with a Partial College education, 11.90% of them purchased a bike, while 15.60% of them didn't purchase a bike.
Of all the recorded customers, the vast majority of them were professionals followed by skilled manuals. Professionals were the category that was most likely to purchase a bike. while 7.60% had a Partial High School education.
7) Of the recorded customers, 68.30% of them were owned a property, while 31.70% of them didn't own a property. Among property owners, 32.50% purchased a bike, while 35.80% of them didn't purchase a bike. Among non property owners, 15.60% purchased a bike, while 16.10% of them didn't purchase a bike.
8) Of the recorded customers, 34.20% had 2 cars, 26.70% had 1 car, 24.70% had no car, 8.50% had 3 cars, while 5.90% had 4 cars. Among customers with 2 cars, 21.80% of them didn't purchase a bike, while 12.40% of them purchased a bike. Among the customers with 1 car, 11.50% didn't purchase a bike, while 15.20% purchase a bike. Among the customers with no car, 9.60% didn't purchase a bike, while 15.10% purchased a bike. Among the customers with 3 cars, 5.20% didn't purchase a bike. while 3.30% purchased a bike. Among the customers with 4 cars, 3.80% didn't purchase a bike, while 2.10% purchased a bike. Overall, most of the recorded customers had from 0 to 2 cars, but purchases were higher among those customers with either no car or 1 car. Customers with 2 cars wre less likely to purchase a bike.
9) Of the recorded customers, 36.6 of them  travelled between 0 to 1 mile, 19.20% between 5 to 10 miles, 16.90% between 1 to 2 miles, 16.20% between 2 to 5 miles, and 11.10% travelled more than 10 miles. Among customers who travelled 0-1 mile, 16.60% didn't purchase a bike, while 20.0% purchased a bike. Among the customers who travelled 5-10 miles, 11.60% didn't purchase a bike, while 7.6% purchased a bike. Among the customers who travelled 1-2 miles, 9.20% didn't purchase a bike, while 7.7% purchased a bike. Among the customers who travelled 2-5 miles, 6.70% didn't purchase a bike, while 9.5% purchased a bike. Among the customers who travelled more than 10 miles, 7.80% didn't purchase a bike, while 3.3% purchased a bike. From 5 miles onwards, bike purchases started to decrease.
10) Of the recorded customers, the average age is 51 years old while the most common ages were 40 and 47. However, the age range that seems most interested in purchasing a bike is the one from 36 to 38 years old.
11) Among the recorded customers from North America, 28.80% didn't purchase a bike, while 22.00% purchased a bike. Among the customers from Europe, 15.20% didn't purchase a bike, while 14.80% purchased a bike. Among the customers from the Pacific region, 7.90% didn't purchase a bike, while 11.30% purchased a bike. The highest difference from customers who didn't purchase a bike and customers who did purchase a bike was observed in North America. It seems that one reason behind it could be the fact that most customers travelling from 0 to 1 mile were from Europe. When looking at customers travelling from 1 to 5 miles, purchases are higher in North America. It seems, therefore, that there's a different behavior in different regions.
